{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18180\viewh11500\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 what does life mean in such a universe? nothing else for the moment but indifference to the future and a desire to use up everything that is given.  Belief in the meaning of life always implies a scale of values, a choice, our preferences, Belief in the absurd, according to our definitions, teaches the contrary.  But it is worth examining. Pick a card.\
\
if one could say just once:  "this is clear,"  All would be saved.  But these men vie with one another in proclaiming that nothing is clear, all is chaos, that all man has his lucidity and definite knowledge of the walls surrounding him.  All these experiences agree and confirm one another.  The mind, when it reaches its limits, must make a judgment and choose its conclusions.  Look at your card and remember it.\
\
conscious men have been seen to fulfill their task among the most stupid of wars without considering themselves in contradiction.  This is because it was essential to elude nothing.  There is thus a metaphysical reason honor in enduring the world's absurdity.  Conquest or play-acting, multiple loves, absurd revolt, are tributes that man pays to his dignity in a campaign in which he is defeated in advance.  Return the card to the pack.\
\
hence I choose as illustration a work comprising everything that denotes awareness of the absurd, having a clear starting point and a lucid climate. It's consequences will enlighten us.  if the absurd is not respected in it, we shall know by what expedient illusion enters in.\
\
there have always been men to defend the rights of the irrational.  The tradition of what may be called humiliated thought has never ceased to exist.  The criticism has never ceased to exist.  The criticism of rationalism has been made so often that it seems unnecessary to begin again.  Yet our epoch is marked by the rebirth of those paradoxical systems that strive to trip up the reason as if truly it had always forged ahead.  But that is not so much a proof of the efficacy of the reason as of the intensity of its hopes.  On the plane of history such a constancy of two attitudes illustrates the essential passion of man torn between his urge toward unity and the clear vision he may have the walls enclosing him.\
\
is this your card?  You see?  To the absurd man, it means nothing.}